# 如何监控ES性能
    [参考链接](https://blog.csdn.net/zhinengyunwei/article/details/104037976)
    [How to collect Elasticsearch metrics](https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/collect-elasticsearch-metrics/#index-stats-api)
## What is Elasticsearch?
1. an open source distributed document store and search engine
    It's elastic in the sense that it's easy to scale horizontally, simply add more nodes to distribute the load.
2. stores and retrieves data strucures in near real-time.
3. relies heavily on Apache Lucene, a full-text search engine written in Java.

## Usage Scene
    Today, many companies,including Wikipedia, eBay, Github, and Datadog,use it to store,search,and analyze large amounts of data on the fly.
## The elements
    In Elasticsearch, a cluster is made up of one or more nodes
    Each node is a single running instance of Elasticsearch, and it's elasticsearch.yml configuration file designates which cluster it belongs to (cluster.name) and what type of node it can be.
1. Master-eligible nodes
   node.master = true 
2. Data nodes
   stores data in the form of shards and performs actions related to indexing, searching, and aggregating data.
   node.data = true
3. Client nodes
   which is designed to act as a load balancer that helps route indexing and search requests.
   Client nodes help shoulder some of the search workload so that data and master-eligible nodes can
   focus on their core tasks.
   Depending on your use case, client nodes may not be necessary because data nodes are able to handle request routing on their own.
   However, adding client nodes to your cluster makes sense if your search/index workload is heavy enough to benefit from having dedicated client nodes to help route requests.
## How es organizes data
    Each index contains a set of related documents in JSON format.Elasticseearch's secret sauce for full-text search is Lucene's inverted index.When a document is indexed, Elasticsearch automatically creates an inverted index for each field;the inverted index maps terms to the documents that contain those terms.

    An index is stored across one or more primary shards, and zero or more replica shards,and each shard is a complete instance of Lucene,like a mini search engine.

    When creating an index, you can specify the number of primary shards,as well as the number of replicas per primary.The defaults are five primary shards per index, and one replica per primary.The number of primary shards cannot be changed once an index has been created,so choose carefully,or you will likely need to reindex later on.The number of replicas can be updated later on as needed.To protect against data loss,the master node ensures that each replica shard is not allocated to the same node as its primary shard.

## Key performance metrics to monitor
    Es provides plenty of metrics that can help you detect signs of trouble and take action when you're faced with problems like
    unreliable nodes, out-of-memory erros,and long garbage collection times.
### Search and indexing performance
    If you are using Elasticsearch mainly for search,or if search is a customer-facing feature that is key to your organization,you should monitor query latency and take action if it surpasses a threshold.It's important to monitor relevant metrics about queries and fetches that can help you determine how your searches perform over time.

    Query load : Monitoring the number of queries currently in progress can give you a rough idea of how many requests your cluster is dealing with at any particular moment in time. Consider alerting on unusual spikes or dips that may point to underlying problems. You may also want to monitor the size of the search thread pool queue, which we will explain in further detail later on in this post.

    Query latency : Though Elasticsearch does not explicitly provide this metric, monitoring tools can help you use the available metrics to calculate the average query latency by sampling the total number of queries and the total elapsed time at regular intervals. Set an alert if latency exceeds a threshold, and if it fires, look for potential resource bottlenecks, or investigate whether you need to optimize your queries.

    Fetch latency : The second part of the search process, the fetch phase, should typically take much less time than the query phase. If you notice this metric consistently increasing, this could indicate a problem with slow disks, enriching of documents (highlighting relevant text in search results, etc.), or requesting too many results.

### Indexing performance metrics

    Indexing requests are similar to write requests in a traditional database system. If your Elasticsearch workload is write-heavy, it’s important to monitor and analyze how effectively you are able to update indices with new information. Before we get to the metrics, let’s explore the process by which Elasticsearch updates an index. When new information is added to an index, or existing information is updated or deleted, each shard in the index is updated via two processes: refresh and flush.

    Index refresh

    Newly indexed documents are not immediately made available for search. First they are written to an in-memory buffer where they await the next index refresh, which occurs once per second by default. The refresh process creates a new in-memory segment from the contents of the in-memory buffer (making the newly indexed documents searchable), then empties the buffer, as shown below.

    Index flush

    At the same time that newly indexed documents are added to the in-memory buffer, they are also appended to the shard’s translog: a persistent, write-ahead transaction log of operations. Every 30 minutes, or whenever the translog reaches a maximum size (by default, 512MB), a flush is triggered. During a flush, any documents in the in-memory buffer are refreshed (stored on new segments), all in-memory segments are committed to disk, and the translog is cleared.